in a future networked physical world, a myriad of smart
sensors and actuators assess and control aspects of their 
environments and autonomously act in response to it. 
examples range in telematics, traffic management, team robotics
or home automation to name a few. to a large extent, such
systems operate proactively and independently of direct 
human control driven by the perception of the environment and
the ability to organize respective computations dynamically.
the challenging characteristics of these applications include
sentience and autonomy of components, issues of 
responsiveness and safety criticality, geographical dispersion, mobility
and evolution. a crucial design decision is the choice of
the appropriate abstractions and interaction mechanisms.
looking to the basic building blocks of such systems we
may find components which comprise mechanical 
components, hardware and software and a network interface, thus
these components have different characteristics compared to
pure software components. they are able to spontaneously
disseminate information in response to events observed in
the physical environment or to events received from other
component via the network interface. larger autonomous
components may be composed recursively from these 
building blocks.
the paper describes an architectural framework and a
middleware supporting a component-based system and an
integrated view on events-based communication comprising
the real world events and the events generated in the 
system. it starts by an outline of the component-based system
construction. the generic event architecture gear is 
introduced which describes the event-based interaction between
the components via a generic event layer. the generic event
layer hides the different communication channels including
∗this work was partially supported by the ec, through
project ist-2000-26031 (cortex), and by the fct,
through the large-scale informatic systems 
laboratory (lasige) and project posi/1999/chs/33996 
(defeats).
the interactions through the environment. an appropriate
middleware is presented which reflects these needs and 
allows to specify events which have quality attributes to 
express temporal constraints. this is complemented by the
notion of event channels which are abstractions of the 
underlying network and allow to enforce quality attributes. they
are established prior to interaction to reserve the needed
computational and network resources for highly predictable
event dissemination.
