we study various computational aspects of solving games
using dominance and iterated dominance. we first study
both strict and weak dominance (not iterated), and show
that checking whether a given strategy is dominated by
some mixed strategy can be done in polynomial time using
a single linear program solve. we then move on to 
iterated dominance. we show that determining whether there
is some path that eliminates a given strategy is np-complete
with iterated weak dominance. this allows us to also show
that determining whether there is a path that leads to a
unique solution is np-complete. both of these results hold
both with and without dominance by mixed strategies. (a
weaker version of the second result (only without dominance
by mixed strategies) was already known [7].) iterated strict
dominance, on the other hand, is path-independent (both
with and without dominance by mixed strategies) and can
therefore be done in polynomial time.
we then study what happens when the dominating 
strategy is allowed to place positive probability on only a few
pure strategies. first, we show that finding the dominating
strategy with minimum support size is np-complete (both
for strict and weak dominance). then, we show that 
iterated strict dominance becomes path-dependent when there
is a limit on the support size of the dominating strategies,
and that deciding whether a given strategy can be 
eliminated by iterated strict dominance under this restriction is
np-complete (even when the limit on the support size is 3).
finally, we study bayesian games. we show that, unlike in
normal form games, deciding whether a given pure strategy
is dominated by another pure strategy in a bayesian game is
np-complete (both with strict and weak dominance); 
however, deciding whether a strategy is dominated by some
mixed strategy can still be done in polynomial time with
a single linear program solve (both with strict and weak
∗
this material is based upon work supported by the 
national science foundation under itr grants iis-0121678
and iis-0427858, and a sloan fellowship.
dominance). finally, we show that iterated dominance 
using pure strategies can require an exponential number of
iterations in a bayesian game (both with strict and weak
dominance).
