when donating money to a (say, charitable) cause, it is 
possible to use the contemplated donation as negotiating 
material to induce other parties interested in the charity to
donate more. such negotiation is usually done in terms of
matching offers, where one party promises to pay a certain
amount if others pay a certain amount. however, in their
current form, matching offers allow for only limited 
negotiation. for one, it is not immediately clear how multiple
parties can make matching offers at the same time without
creating circular dependencies. also, it is not immediately
clear how to make a donation conditional on other 
donations to multiple charities, when the donator has different
levels of appreciation for the different charities. in both
these cases, the limited expressiveness of matching offers
causes economic loss: it may happen that an arrangement
that would have made all parties (donators as well as 
charities) better off cannot be expressed in terms of matching
offers and will therefore not occur.
in this paper, we introduce a bidding language for 
expressing very general types of matching offers over multiple
charities. we formulate the corresponding clearing 
problem (deciding how much each bidder pays, and how much
each charity receives), and show that it is np-complete to
approximate to any ratio even in very restricted settings.
we give a mixed-integer program formulation of the 
clearing problem, and show that for concave bids, the program
reduces to a linear program. we then show that the clearing
problem for a subclass of concave bids is at least as hard as
the decision variant of linear programming. subsequently,
we show that the clearing problem is much easier when bids
are quasilinear-for surplus, the problem decomposes across
charities, and for payment maximization, a greedy approach
is optimal if the bids are concave (although this latter 
problem is weakly np-complete when the bids are not concave).
for the quasilinear setting, we study the mechanism design
question. we show that an ex-post efficient mechanism is
∗
supported by nsf under career award iri-9703122,
grant iis-9800994, itr iis-0081246, and itr iis-0121678.
impossible even with only one charity and a very restricted
class of bids. we also show that there may be benefits to
linking the charities from a mechanism design standpoint.
